# Recipe Manager

The Recipe Manager is an easy-to-use tool for cooks of all skill-levels to keep track of their favorite recipes, manage and organize their ingredients for those recipes, and show statistics and information related to both their recipes and ingredients. The program allows users to look up recipes by category, create and edit their recipes and recipe ingredients, filter recipes by what can be made with the user’s current stock of ingredients, and also filter recipes that can be made based on the current ingredient stock and a user’s given budget to purchase additional ingredients. Users then have the ability to create shopping lists from any number of recipes, streamlining the process between deciding what the user wants to eat and acquiring the exact necessary ingredients to do so. Users also have access to additional recipe statistics on what recipes were “cooked” last, the top-rated recipes in each category, and the average ratings for each recipe category defined in the user’s database.

Users will find the Recipe Manager useful for anyone wanting to cook for a number of reasons. Instead of flipping through a cookbook, you can simply search for it by name. It helps keep both your pantry and recipes organized in one easy to access place. Users can make a shopping list without having to physically look in their pantry and meal planning for the week can become a breeze. It’s perfect for anyone in need of organization or wants some information on what they cook and when. It can help both beginner cooks because of its ease-of-use, and advanced chefs because of the recipe statistics.

The project was implemented using C# in Visual Studio 2017, using a Windows Forms Application for the user interface. The application utilized the Microsoft SQL Server LocalDB as our database and the standard SQL library present in Visual Studio 2017 with the SQL server package add-on. 
